# Movie_Recommender
Built a recommender system  using a MovieLens data set, utilizing the ‘recommenderlab’ package. This package provides the infrastructure to develop and test recommender algorithms for rating data in a unified framework. This dataset (ml-latest-small) describes five-star rating and free-text tagging activity from [MovieLens] (http://movielens.org), a free movie recommendation service. Data used to make recommendations had already been pre-cleansed. The performance measure for the models include analyzing a graphical plot that illustrates the diagnostic ability to make a good movie recommendation versus a bad one - ROC curves - and comparison between different error rates for all models considered. Data has been partitioned into training and test data. 
Though a multitude of algorithms were used, these user-based collaborative filtering techniques will be discussed in this report: random, popular and singular value decomposition (SVD). This recommender system analyzes users’ information and recommends 10 movies based on the movie ratings provided by other users who have watched certain movies. From these algorithms, the best performing model used the Popular algorithm. In order to make relevant predictions, MovieLens should strive to link its users’ movie preferences to other users of similar interests, as well as match those movies with a rating of four or higher to other movies of similar ratings, as long as their genres are the same. By applying statistical analysis and previously recorded data, the team’s recommender system can help a user find movies that he/she wants to watch next, promote a larger selection of both old and new movies with high ratings and similar interests, and increase user loyalty for such a movie recommender system.

The final model for the best recommender system utilizes the Popular algorithm, which recommends 10 movies for a particular user. The best algorithm will be the one that has the lowest root mean squared error (RMSE), mean squared error (MSE), and mean absolute error (MAE). As it can been seen in the summarized table and graph above, the Popular algorithm has resulted in an RMSE of 0.914, MSE of 0.836, and MAE of 0.681, which are the lowest error rates of the five methods. In addition, the Popular algorithm has the highest true positive rate compared to the other three UBCF methods. 
